# Setting up your own run

This will walk you through how to set up your own run -- including describing the config files which RAMPART uses.
If you haven't already [installed rampart](installation) then please do that now.

## Run configuration

By default a sub-directory called `annotations` will be created in the runtime directory containing the data files generated by the processing pipeline.
These will be in the format of comma-seperated-value (CSV) files with one for each FASTQ file created by the basecaller (they will have the same filename as the FASTQ files but with the extension `.csv` instead of `.fastq`. 

The runtime directory can also contain a configuration file called `run_configuration.json` to provide details about the MinION run being performed. 


Here's the example of provided `run_configuration.json` (located in `covid/run_configuration.json`):

```json
{
  "title": "covid run",
  "basecalledPath": "fastq/pass"
}
```

This file can specify the basecalled read path (as an alternative to the command line `--basecalledPath`), and a title for the run

*In the original version of RAMPART, you can specify a list of samples, their names and the barcodes that are being used to distinguish them. However, this feature will not work properly with this version of RAMPART - you will not see the variants matched to the renamed barcodes.*

These options can also be specified from the command line (`--title`, `--basecalledPath`, `--annotatedPath`) and will override the options in the JSON file. However the `run_configuration.json` is useful as a way of recording the samples and barcodes used in a run and to help if the run needs to be restarted.

## Configuration files define a protocol.

*To get richer, more informative real-time analysis, a folder of configuration files called a `protocol` directory can be provided.
This is a directory of files with specified names and formats that tell RAMPART about what is being sequenced and allows it to visualize the sequencing more appropriately. 
It can also contain custom scripts to alter the behaviour or processing of the data.*

*Normally, the protocol directory is virus-specific, not run-specific.*

For sars-cov-2 virus, you already have all these files in the covid_protocol folder, which is the default one for this version of RAMPART


### Define your own protocol

You can also design your own custom protocol. [See here](protocols) for more information.



